All right so let's do a couple of exercises on one side it limits so it says find the following one
sided limits and determine if the limit in general exists.
So here we have what we call a piecewise function.
And I forgot my arrow here.
All right.
So this is a function that's composed of other functions.
So for example when the inputs less than negative four we have this pink function between negative 4
and a 1.
We have this blue function and to the right of one.
So for numbers greater than 1 we have this green function.
So again it's all one function but within that big function f of x we have different functions for different
templates.
So go ahead and draw this the best that you can and write all these limits and then try to find them.
So I'll give you some time to pause the video and try it out.
All right so let's see what we have here.
First of all we have a limit of f of x as x approaches negative 4 from the left.
So negative fours over here.
So as we approach it from the left so we go right we go right we go right.
And it looks like the y value is going to be 2 right.
And again let me remind you it doesn't matter that the y value is not to actually there but the fact
that it is approaching it.
So looks like it's going to be two.
All right.
Now we have a limit of f of x x approaches negative 4.
But this time from the right.
So again negative fours over here.
So if we approach it from the right it looks like the y value is going to be on by the way let's say
that this is seven.
So it looks like the y value is going to be 7.
All right so negative four from the right is seven.
Now as you can see the limit as we approach negative four from the left is two.
And as we approach negative four from the right is seven.
So the limit as x approaches the same number from the left and the right they are different if they
are different that means that the limit of f of x x approaches negative 4 in general does not exist.
Remember that for a limit to exist the limit from the left must equal the limit from the right all right
let's move on to the other ones limit of f of x x x approaches one from the left.
So we look for one.
One is over here.
So let's approach it from the left and we have as we approach it from the left it looks like the y value
is going to be three.
All right let's keep going.
And we have a limit of 5 x x approaches one from the right.
So again ones over here and let's approach it from the right.
So we get closer we get closer.
It looks like the y value is going to be negative 3.
All right.
So this is negative 3.
And we have the same thing.
So I say x approaches one from the left is 3 x approaches one from the right.
It's negative 3.
So as you approach the number from the left turn right the limits are different three is not negative
3.
Therefore the general limit of f of x x x approaches 1 in general again does not exist because the limit
from the left is different than the limit from the right.
All right.
And we have one last limit over here.
Limit of f of x.
X approaches 6 in general.
So here we have it in general.
That means that we need to check if the one from the left is equal to the one from the right so as x
approaches 6 6 is over here.
Let's approach it first from the left so to say The point is around here.
So as we approach it from the left it looks like the y value is going to be 5.
OK.
Now let's approach it from the right.
So again 6 is over here.
And as we approach it from the right it also looks like the y value is going to be 5.
So the limit from the left as x approaches 6 is 5 and the limit from the right as x approaches 6 is
also 5.
That means that the limit from the left and the right are equal and therefore the limit exist and the
limit is five.
All right.
This is the only example here where the limit actually exists.
So that is it.
Remember if the limit from the left is different than the one from the right as x approaches a certain
number then the limit in general as x approaches that number does not exist for it to exist.
The limit from the left must be equal to the limit from the right.